Welcome back. In this part, we are going to be making the icing. Yes, the exciting icing for our donut. Um, and my apologies. I did say in the last part we were going to do the texturing and lighting and stuff, but I just realized like we should do we should finish the modeling cuz we just modeled this thing. So, let's finish focusing on modeling before we jump to uh another concept. So, we're going to do some icing. Yay. Um, but first, we do have quite a lot of objects going on in our scene. We got a camera lamp. We got an object, an image and stuff. We should try to organize some things. And some of you might have noticed in the top right hand corner, you've got a list of all of your objects, right? This is called your outliner. Um, and it is a like a spreadsheet version of all the objects that are in your scene. And uh we're going to use it later on to like organize like create collections so it's like easier to see and organize things. But the first thing we need to do is just add names to things that make sense. Um, so for example, our mug here is currently called cylinder. So if we had a big scene with lots of objects going on, we can't find it. So it's a good habit to name your objects. So there's a number of different ways you can name something. Um, one is you can just double click it in the outliner, right? You can see now I can type in a name like mug. Uh, you can also in your 3D viewport, you can hit F2, which is the same hotkey in uh like Windows, I don't know, maybe Mac, but for renaming. Um, and then I can just type in a name like donut. Um, and you can also do that in uh the outliner as well. You can just hit F2 and that'll also um also do the renaming. So there we go. So now we got names that actually make sense. Um, I don't actually need the image anymore even though I just renamed it. So I'm just going to delete that. All right. So we've now just got a camera, we got a donut, a light, and a mug. Great. So let's make that icing. I'm going to move my mug out of the way. So G and then X. So, I'm just going to throw it to the side so we don't see it anymore. And let's focus on our doughut. So, we want to make some icing. And when it comes to something as challenging as icing and and really anything that there's so many different ways to make things in 3D, and every single method has a pro and a con. So, for example, there is a fluid simulator in Blender. It's not very good. Um, but it exists and it is a way you could create icing. You could actually like create an object and then simulate it falling and splatting over it. The reason we're not going to do that though is that one, it's incredibly [snorts] complicated. There's so many things that can go wrong with the simulation. Blender Simulator is not very good. Um, and then also you don't have any control over the final result. You have to keep re-aking things. It's it's horrible. But there is another way and that is to just do it by hand. And at first that seems slower, but you have much more control over it and it's actually pretty easy to do. So I'm going to show you how to do that. And it's also a great way to introduce some more tools and things and get you familiar with different areas of Blender. So icing follows the shape of the thing that it's on. So really icing is basically the shape that we've got. It's basically half of this doughut. So if we got half the doughut, we're halfway there. Then we just need to add some variation to it to make it look like icing. So what I'm going to do is duplicate my donut. So shift D. That is how you duplicate. Uh you can also just go object and then say duplicate objects there. Shift D. Um and when you do this, you are in the duplicated state and it's saying now where do you want to place that thing? Um and we don't want to place it anywhere. We want to leave it exactly where it was. And so I'm going to hit escape. Now when you do that, it hasn't um cancelled the duplication cuz you can see at the top there we've now got donut and then donut. 001. So there is two objects still there. They're just exactly in the exact same spot fighting for space. Something you actually never want to have is two objects sharing the exact same space cuz then when a camera moves or something happens uh in an animation you see like flickering. Um really really bad. Anyways, um I'm going to double click that and I'm going to call it icing just so that I can uh quickly tell the two apart. [snorts] And I want to delete the bottom half of my doughut. So I'm going to go into front view mode like that. And I need to uh go into edit mode next. And I want to select the bottom half of my donut. Um this is face select. Current. Let's go verticy select. Okay. And if I was to click and then just drag over the bottom half of my doughut, it would appear as though as we have got half the doughut. However, and this is an area of blender that is not clear uh until you run into problems. But if I was to change my orbit, you can see it hasn't actually selected half the donut. It's only selected what it could see from that view. So you have to turn on toggle X-ray first or go into wireframe mode. Um but uh yeah, you have to turn that on first, then do your selection. And now it will actually select all the way through an object to the other side as well. By the way, if you find that you can't do this this drag selection that I've got, if you've got instead a circle over your cursor like like what I have here, um what that means is you have tapped the W key by mistake, which will cycle through in the top little uh side of your screen there. Um different selection modes. I wish it was not W. That's one of my complaints I've made to the Blender team. W is so close to the other keys you need on your keyboard. So many people hit this, they hit the wrong key and then they're in this thing and then like nothing nothing works. So like yeah, you want to be in this mode most of the time. Um but yeah, you can change to these other modes if you wanted to, you know, do a special selection or something as well. But anyways, that is how to to fix that. And also just to to call it out as well, we're going to be doing some like stuff with this icing that's going to maybe mess some things up and you might run into some issues. I got to call it out again. I've got an unstuck yourself guide, troubleshooting guide for just this tutorial. It is free. Just click the link below um and it'll take you there. Um because I want you guys to be able to get through this tutorial, but there's so many little things that you could experience in this. So um we're going to add it to that guide um to try and help you. And if you can't find um the answer to your your problem in there, um hit up the Discord. Uh the link for that is also um in it. So I'll link to my website and all the links will be there. So check that out um if you run into issues. All right. So, I've got the bottom half of my donut. We have to delete it. So, I'm going to hit X. When you do this, it's saying which part of it you want to delete. Now, this is one of those cases where it actually matters like which one of these you select cuz if you were to select vertices, cuz it would appear as though that's what you need to delete. But if you did that, you'll notice you've got now less than half because along with the vertices selected is that final line that is cut through the middle there. So, I don't want to delete that final line. and I want to delete the other stuff. So, in my options here, I've got an option for faces, which if we try that, you can see is the solution because when you uh deleting the faces, you're only deleting what are like what is a whole face, but these individual points here don't make up a whole face. This part does, so that's left behind, but all the other stuff was deleted. So, anyways, we should now have half of a donut. So, I'm going to turn off toggle X-ray now so I can see it. And if we clicked off, you'll see that it actually just looks exactly like a donut because again, they're sharing the exact same space. I do know it's there if I select it in the uh little outliner there, but it's uh completely invisible. So, the first thing I want to do is I want to add some thickness to this icing. And this is something you should know how to do. You should know it. If you don't know it, you've not been paying attention. Um but if you go to your modifiers, there is a modifier. Another clue. uh it is of course the solidify modifier which adds thickness to any face. So now that we've added that you think something's broken, it's not working. It is working. It's just that by default the solidify will uh add thickness inside. So if you change this offset here to be the inverted, which is one, it will now add the thickness the other way, which is what we need. Okay, so that's great. But of course, it doesn't look very good. There's a a quote which uh I always repeat. Uh imperfection is the digital perfection because the reason this looks fake, it's just perfectly straight. There's no way to get a laser cut icing across a donut like this unless you're using 3D software. So, we need to add randomness to this edge here in order for it to look realistic to our eye. So, I need to go into edit mode. And when we do that, we can't see the mesh because we've got our solidifier blocking our view. So, I'm going to click this disable in viewport just to hide it so that I can see it. So, when I turn it back on, I I know it's there, but just while I'm editing it, in order to see it, I need to be able to um have it turned off. So, to add randomness, what I could do is I could come in here and I could select one point like this. I could hit G and I could move it down. Okay? Then I could get the point next to it and I could move this one down and then this one. And I could do this and do this and we could put ourselves to sleep trying to make this donut [laughter] look good and it would it would take forever. Um, but thankfully in 3D there are tools for everything to make your life easier. And so one such tool is at the top here, your proportional editing tool. What this does is now when I hit G, it'll move everything at once. Um, no. It what it will do is it will it will uh move everything with a fall-off area around it. The reason it's moving the entire mesh with it is that the fall-off is so big that it's actually outside of our view at the moment. This was actually something I I called out in my uh usability talk at the Blender conference last year. Um, we could do better than this, but basically if you zoom way out, you will see there is a circle around it. Um, and that's how big it is. So, what we need to do is whilst we're in this move state is we need to reduce that. And you do that by scrolling down. Scroll down, down, down, down, down. Oh, no, that was the wrong direction. Scroll up. Sorry. Scroll up, not down. And that will make it scroll. Ed smaller. So, scroll up to make it smaller. Scroll down to make it bigger. I just completely brain farted. If you don't have a scroll wheel, by the way, and this is another thing to call out. When you're in a move state like we are right now, you can see along the bottom of our screen, you've got a list and that only appeared there when you're in that state. When I when I turn it off, all those options are gone. But whilst I'm in this state, there's a bunch of options there. And the keyboard shortcut is actually right there. Page up and page down. Okay, so that is how we can increase or decrease. So again, if you if you don't see the the circle, you just have to keep holding page down or scrolling up um until it goes uh down to something that you can see basically. Anyways, now that we are in that state, I'm going to hit zed, okay, to grab uh sorry. Yeah. So, whilst I'm doing I I don't want to just like freehand do it because if I if I pull it down like this, if it like if I watch what happens. If I do it on the edge here like this, it appears as though it's it's pulling it straight down, right? And I do this and this. But actually, if you looked at it, these would be slightly skewed a little bit. Um, just because of like we're working in 3D. We're looking at things from a different perspective. Sometimes things appear to be going down, but they're actually at like a slight angle. So, it helps to um when you're moving something to think of which axis it's going on. So, I want it to go straight down. So, G and then zed. And now I'm going to pull it down. Okay. That was a lot of work just to do this one little bit. I'm sorry. All right. Okay. So, we've pulled it down. Excellent. Um I'll do a little bit more as well. I'll just do a little bit here. I'll do a little bit here. You can like [clears throat] play with the um the amount the the fall-off like so. You know, you can play with it. All right, cool. Now, if we turn on our solidifier modifier, we've got the thickness back, and you can see we've got some variation to uh to the donut there. So, let's let's continue on here. So, let's pull this like so. I don't want to go too far cuz we're going to add some some dribbles soon. Dribble sounds gross, but you know the little runoff droplets that uh that's going to go down down the donut like so. Okay, that is pretty good. Now, you can see it's like partly like intersecting it. Um, and that's obviously because we've got proportional editing, so it's actually kind of moving some of these ones that are up top and pulling it down as well. It's fine with the solidify modifier, but we're actually going to end up fixing it when we uh when we do the dribble anyway cuz I'm going to introduce another modifier that's going to fix this. Um but anyways, let's do this. Let's do the dribble part. So, I'm going to look for an area. Yeah. Like let's go Yeah. And here where this bit's like running down. Um and I'm going to um I want to make this like a dribble that goes down the donut here. And currently I can't really continue to pull this. Like I could I could like get like a sharp point like that, but that does not look very good, right? We need more geometry essentially. So you might remember the hotkey. If we want to extrude something, it is E. But I can't just extrude one point like that. Okay? Because there's no face there. There's nothing that's actually going to be rendered if I just pull one point down. So I need to select two points. Okay? So two points like this. If I hit E and then zed and then pull down and then release. And then if I bring back my solidify modifier, you can see we've got more geometry. Doesn't look very good though. Um, so let's add in another modifier. The same one that we used on the mug as well. It's the subdivision surface modifier. [snorts] Um, as I say, you use these all the time. Use it for most objects probably have a subdivision modifier cuz it's so useful. Um, but one of the things it's good for is it like besides adding detail, it like smooths things out for us. So that little hard little block that we had there has now turned into a smoothed droplet looking shape which is exactly what we want. But look, it has separated from the donut. Now in previous tutorials um I actually did like a thing that showed you how to like use this but make it like snap onto the donut and it got all complicated. Everyone screwed up their mesh at this point. Um you can do this by hand as well. you can like come in here and like try to pull this in piece by piece, but it's actually not necessary because there is a modifier that will just do it for you. Um, so if you go to your add modifier stack, and then go to deform, and then you're looking for the one called shrink wrap. And by the way, again, if you can't find it, just go up to here, type in shrink wrap, and you'll also find it there. So shrink wrap, what this is going to do, it's going to shrink it onto a mesh. But you have to define the mesh first in order to see it because if you don't, it just has no effect. Absolutely. That's what the red is h showing you. It's not doing anything. So your target um yeah, you can actually like select it from the drop down or what most people do, you click the little eyropper and then you select the object. Bam. All right, now it's working. And now we've got some serious Z fighting where the uh faces are overlapping. And this is horrible. You never want this. All right. So, you will remember uh when I was talking about the modifier that it works top to bottom. So, essentially what we've done is we've gone uh add thickness, then add detail, and then shrink wrap all of that thickness onto the donut itself. So, what we need to do is change the order of this um and not go halfway cuz that also won't do anything. Um we need to go all the way to the top so the shrink wrap is happening first. So, it's snapping it onto the mesh. Then, it's adding the solidify modifier. Then, underneath that, it's adding the subsurf modifier. And we can actually increase this, make it a level two for the viewport. And you can see it just adds a little bit um extra detail there. Okay. Um and you can go even higher, of course, but you know, you will get uh eventually it'll just get so slow for your computer and there's not really going to be any point, but you can just go to level two for now. Okay. So, uh, to quickly show you as well what the shrink wrap is actually doing. Um, because it's really it's not that clear. Um, but yeah, this is this is where it's that little piece is overhanging and then it's essentially looking for the nearest point um to find this mesh underneath it and then it is just snapping it uh to that point. So, it's it's pretty good. Like I can drag this like pretty far down like but there is an extent I can so I'm just doing another extrusion on this point. So, as I pull it down, you can see it like it kind of loses it. There's a point where it just won't find the mesh anymore. So, there's a point like at which you should start to pull things into the mesh. It's not magic. It's not going to just magically find it. So, if I just pull it all the way out there, there's no way it's going to be able to find it. So there is uh a limit, but you can see this is it does make our job a lot easier because I can um I can pull it down and I can start to make um you know some some big dribbles along my mesh here. And I don't have to really worry that much about the uh the placement because it's just going to automatically snap itself to the donut. I just have to make sure the dribbles are straight. Um, and if you look at reference, which you should be doing, um, I'll put some reference on, um, my, uh, the link below on my website, so you can have a look and just kind of go through it. Um, but yeah, usually when when like droplets form, they kind of like the gravity kind of like builds at a point and it kind of like gets sucked from the top. And so you end up with like this thin bit in the middle and then this like globule, which is a crazy word, um, at the bottom there. But essentially, it just means the piece at the bottom, I'm just going to make a little bit thicker than the pieces above it. Okay, so that's one, but we should do more. So I'm going to go around and I'm going to add more. Um, and just repeat the same thing. Just do an extrusion on these little points there and just kind of drag it down. So, let's do that because yeah, I remember the first doughut that I ever made. Oh, way way back in the day, making the first doughut. Um, and I really like I I did one little dribble going down it. And then I always wanted to frame the the camera so that it was looking at that cuz that was the most interesting part of the donut. And then I learned like ah just exaggerate. Just add little dribbles everywhere. That is a big part of being an artist is you look at reality and then you find the bits that are actually pleasing and then you exaggerate it. And that's what I'm doing. So, you know, donuts typically don't have this many dribbles, but it's very pleasing. It just makes it look very like gooey and like, oh, there's so much icing. Um, and you can see, by the way, I'm not doing the same shape also everywhere. So, this is like a half one, right? And I'm kind of looking for like where I can add um some different shapes. Why is that? There's a gap there. Oh, okay. Oh, no. Yeah, I was uh recording uh for this this tutorial and I recorded something and then I like reverted it. But I've now got a giant face here where there should be not a giant face there. So, what do you do? You you've accidentally got this thing. There is uh and this is you obviously don't have to do this because this is not your problem. Um but I'm just going to use the knife tool which is a way to do an incision on a mesh and just add more geometry like freehand. So I've just uh fixed that little problem that I had there. But uh you hopefully should not have that problem. Um yeah, let's I'm going to just pull this down. I'm going to turn on proportional editing. I'm going to add a little bit that's going down. And let's select these two. Turn off proportional. Let's add another little bit that's going right here. Add a little bit of variance. And let's add Let's add another big one right here. Pull this one down. But this is the fun part, you know? I mean, aside from the finicky like going like sideways, looking at where it appears and then straightening it. But you get to kind of like shape things and just like with your eye just just play with it. It's actually one of the cool things of of 3D. Um, it's also why a lot of people get into 3D is they want to do art, but whenever they pick up a pencil, they just can't get the lines where they want it. And the great thing about 3D is is that you've got points and you can move those points after the fact. You're not drawing freehand. So, if you there's no case where you like screw up a line and you have to like rub it out and try again. Like, you just grab a point and just kind of like move it around um like I'm doing right now. So, that's one of the uh one of the joys of of 3D. I'm just trying to just doing filler talk if you can't tell. Just grab a few pieces, move them all down together. Why not? There we go. That's kind of interesting. I might add I might just take this one at the bottom there off. And I'll just maybe pull these out just so we've got more variance that goes all the way around it. But play with it as much you want. Um, you know, you can pause this and, you know, play with it. Um, but I'm just trying to make it look generally appealing. Now, one way to improve this, you'll notice that the icing is separating from it, right? It's going uh it's going up right there. And again, that's because of how subsurf modifiers work. There's a point here and there's a point here. So, it has to uh it has to make this really rounded shape. But real liquid when it is uh in this state when it's clinging to an object uh this part here as as it hits it that part will be like solid right and then the rest of it like this part is round but then this part is like hugging the actual surface. So thankfully we can do that. There is a setting in the solidifier setting options which I might have to move. There we go. So we can see it. Um, underneath edge data, there is an option here for a crease. Okay, so what a crease is doing, we didn't really talk about it with the mug, but it's essentially on an edge, it's creasing it and saying like instead of like doing that huge rounded thing, just kind of tighten it on that edge. Very similar to adding the geometry like what we did on the mug, but this is a way to do it without adding extra geometry. It does kind of add a little bit of stretching, um, but it's not really that noticeable on something like this. But that is very very nice, very solid. Um, it's hugging it and it looks very pleasing. Excellent. Now, we could as well I didn't actually do this for my final one. Um, because I forgot. [laughter] Um, but I I realized after I was like, "Oh, yeah. I guess like the part that's on the inside of the donut." Yeah, I I forgot to do that. Um, but yeah, you can also like do the exact same thing just playing with it. If you find like it's kind of hard to like look at it inside the donut, if you just select the middle row. So if you just hold down alt and then select on that middle row, you can use the same focus um button. So numpad period or tilda and then view. And then that will just lock it on to those selected vertices. So that focus key that I mentioned, it works on uh in edit mode as well, which is good. So yeah, I could just pull these down like this and just, you know, the camera's not really going to notice it. You just want to make sure that it's, you know, not perfectly straight like mine was in the uh final render. Um it it doesn't really like who's going to notice, you know, who's going to tell really? Um annoying people are going to point it out if the inside part's too straight. All right. So, that's pretty good. Um actually, something I might do cuz I noticed like looking from the top cuz this is where the camera's going to be like we're not really able to see much donut. like the icing is a little bit too far down. So, I'm just going to grab some of these points here using proportional editing. I'm just going to pull them up to just expose a little bit more of the underlying doughut, which is definitely going to make the doughnut look a little bit more handmade, you know? Um cuz like obviously a probably a professional donut from Crispy Cream or something doesn't have this much variance in it, but it's okay. It does kind of help it give it a uh yeah, realistic kind of look. Now, there's one thing that would really improve the look of this icing, and that is thickness variation. Because if you go around it, you'll see that the exact, you know, the distance from here to here is the exact same thing as like, you know, what it would be over here to here. And that's just not the case. We've got like icing that is dribbling down. These little droplets are kind of like breaking away. And what happens when those droplets break and then they kind of stop? They build up, right? So, we should actually see these kind of like swell a little bit. They should be a little bit rounder at the heads of each of these points. Also, along the edges here, every little edge here should be a little bit more inflated than the rest of it. And although that sounds like nothing, when you when you do it, when you actually add this little detail, it really does improve the realism. So, we can't do that because all we've got is these little points here. Okay. So, just like what we did with the mug, there comes a time where you need to break the um break the uh non-destructive workflow and apply your modifiers. So, this shrink wrap here, by the way, when you apply something, you have to apply it in like top to bottom. So, even really, although we really just we only want to apply the solidify. That's the main one we want to do. Um, we have to first of all apply this the shrink wrap because that's the one that is first and that's the one like if we if we applied this one first, we would lose uh the the the shrink wrap would have to go after and it would just yeah, it would screw it up. So, we have to apply the shrink wrap first. So, go here and click apply. Okay. Now, in edit mode, you can see we've still got those single points, but they're now snapped to the mesh. All right. But it means we no longer have that automatic snapping. So, if I was to pull these out, you can see they're now separated from the mesh. So, just keep that in mind. Um, we still can't edit the mesh there because we haven't applied the solidify. So, I'm going to apply the solidify now. And now we've got these points here. Okay. So, now if I wanted to with just these points, I could pull some of these points out. Turning off proportional editing. And I could just pull them out a little bit. And that's better. But we don't have enough detail here. We need more geometry to play with in order to add this extra detail. So, we need to apply our subsurf modifier. So, I'm going to on here I'm going to hit apply. And actually, there's a hotkey if you want to don't want to have to go to the drop down each time. Ctrl A will apply the selected uh modifier. And now in edit mode, look at this. Now, we've got all this extra geometry to play with. So, now if I wanted to, I could turn on proportional editing. I could select one point. I could try and get a kind of a shape like this. That would be probably the best way to do it if I was restricted to edit mode. And that'll get me some of the way there. I could, you know, pull individual points out. I could try and do that. But you can see it's it's very finicky. And it's really it's not the tool to use because, like I said, there are tools for everything in 3D to try to help you to um yeah, to to to do things better. So, go to the top of your screen. We're currently in layout. That's all we've done so far. We're going to swap to sculpting. All right. Now, when you swap to a new one of these views here, it'll uh it's assuming the default view of Blender, which is like when everything was like 10 m long or whatever. So, our donut is tiny. So, we have to focus on the selected object. So, I'm just going to hit numpad period. Um, that hasn't worked. [laughter] Okay, don't worry about that. Um, all right. [clears throat] So, instead of in sculpt mode, change to object mode. Then hit numpad period or view selected and then now jump back to sculpt mode. And now we're back to For some reason I thought focus worked in uh in sculpt mode. Yeah. All right. Sometimes you just teach something and then you go, "Oh, that never worked. What was I talking about?" Anyway, um okay. In sculpt mode now, and make sure you're looking at the correct one, okay, not the donut, but the icing itself. If I was to now draw over this, you can see we're drawing into the mesh of the icing. Isn't that cool? All right. So, what I want to do is I want to change my brush and I want to find the one brush which is really going to help us here and it is this one, the inflate deflate brush. Now, your brush size here can be controlled by the size at the top or there is a hotkey F. And when you hit F, you just choose with your mouse like how big the size needs to be. Okay. So, I can pull out. And then now, if I just draw over that little gobuille there, the end piece, it just adds a little bit of inflation. And I'm So, I'm just pulling it around just slightly. I don't want to go too far, but just adding these little inflated points will really help this to look realistic. The other thing is you can actually shape some of the the mesh as well. So, there's another brush that I use all the time, which is the grab brush. You just uh essentially just pull mesh like that. So that's another easy way to just kind of move pieces around like so. You can just shape things like this. Add a little bit of extra detail if you want. Yeah. And all is well. So you can see I I'm doing a little bit on the edge here again because all the edges there should have a little bit of buildup of the fluid because that's where gravity kind of makes it stall and like stop cuz it just kind of like runs out of um like the the tension will be more than the gravity that's pulling it down. Um you get the idea. Anyways, play with that as much as you like. But of course we have some homework to finish off this video. So, what I want you to make is this hidden object, which is a plate for your doughnut. So, have a look at the shape here that I've got and have a think about how you would go about creating this and try to do it yourself. Just give it a step. Even if you don't feel confident, you don't feel like you could uh achieve it, just give it a go. Um, there's a hint, we've got some modifiers on the right here. And I will also show you what the wireframe looks like. um cuz that will probably help some people out as well. Okay, so that's a pretty big hint. Um but yeah, give a go without any instruction from me. Have a stab at that. In the next part, I'll very quickly show you how to uh how to create this. Um if you're get completely lost, you can join me in that part, but please have a go at trying to do it yourself. Anyway, go ahead, join me in the next part after you have tried to create this by