Welcome back. How did you go making your plate? Hope you all attempted it. If you didn't or you got stuck, don't worry because I'm going to show you how to make it right now. So, if you had no problems with it, you might want to skip forward. This might be a little boring, but otherwise, I'm going to show everyone how I would go about creating the plate. So, uh, we need to add a new object to the scene. We can go to the add menu up there, or we can hit shift A. Um, and then from this list, we want to choose the object which most resembles what we want to create. If you ask me, that would be a circle. Okay, so just like before, the bottom lefthand corner, we can change some options here. The biggest one being radius. It's too big. So, drop that into about there. Um, and you will notice that you can see through it. Okay. And that is because there is no face there. This is just a string of vertices. And as I touched on briefly earlier, vertices don't show up in your render. Faces do. So we need to add a type of face underneath fill. So there's two options. Either of them will do. Engon is just one single face shared amongst the 32 or the triangle fan will mean uh there's one point in the middle. Um you can actually see it in this mode. One point in the middle and then it just creates um triangles to that point. I'm going to go with engon because you know it's never failed me [snorts] for this option. So I'll just use that. Okay. Now, we need to uh add more geometry to this because we need to create some sort of a lip for the plate. You can't just have a plate. It's always got to have a rim on or else that stuff slides off it, right? So, into edit mode by hitting tab. Um I'm to add some geometry. I'm going to extrude. So, I'm going to hit E. Okay. And in this state, it's now saying, yeah, where do you want to place it? And it's extruding it along the normal, which is that invisible line that faces out from the face in there. Um and I'm just going to do a single click right here. Um, now before we start scaling and pulling this out, you'll notice that obviously that's intersecting our mesh, we need to delete that face because we don't need it. So, I'm going to hit X to delete. And then what type of deletion? Not edges, not vertices, obviously, cuz that would be, you know, the entire line. Um, I want to delete just the single face on top. And there we go. So, now I can reselect that line by holding down alt and then left clicking on it. And now if I want to create like a lip, which is not just straight up, but a little bit out, I would just scale. So S to scale. And then just pulling my mouse out until it looks something like that. Do a click to confirm. Okay. And then I'm going to do another extrusion cuz I'm going to create like another bit like a little bit of a flat area. Okay. So E. And then I don't actually want to pull it upwards. Obviously, I want to pull it outwards. So what I do is I cancel the movement. And now that I'm in that state, I'm going to hit S to pull outwards like so. Um, by the way, I should show you as well. If after you have like extruded something, like let's say you do this, right? Oops. You if you did this, if you extruded and then you uh like cleared its position, but then accidentally clicked off it, you've now got double vertices all along this this line here. And that's horrible because it will it will create jagged artifacts in it. So this is a really super common problem that you will experience all the time. And the way to fix it is to select your entire mesh, then hit M to merge, and then you're going to go by distance. And you'll see in the bottom there that little thing that says removed 32 vertices. And that has cleared up that problem. So I have to show you that cuz people will do it. It'll happen. And um that's how you fix that issue. But again, if you run into issues like this, use my unstuck yourself guide. Link is in the description because I did set it up so you guys can um hopefully get through this tutorial. All right, so as I said, extrude, clear its like movement, so its placement is exactly where it started from, but then I'm going to hit S to scale outwards. So now I've got a little flat rim to my plate. And then now that it's here, I'm going to do one further extrusion upwards. And this is just obviously the design of the plate that I'm choosing. So upwards. Now you can see it's like freehand like that. I don't like it. So I'm just going to lock it on the Z axis. So just hit Z. So it's going straight up like so. Okay, great. We've got a very jaggedy looking plate that you sometimes see in video games. You're playing Call of Duty or something. You get up close and you go like, "Look at that jagged old plate there." Um, which by the way is cuz in games the plate is like one of a million objects and they can only put so many polies into the scene. So little things, little details on um tables and things often end up a little low res. Anyways, go to your modifier stack. Um, and the first one we want to add to kind of smooth this out is our very favorite subdivision surface right where my head is. Um, or you can access it from the search subdivision. There we go. Okay, cool. And I'm going to go level two. And we've got that crimping effect happening to the middle of our plate there. So, just like before. And actually, let's hide my doughut and my icing just so that I can focus on the plate. And I'm also going to turn off the subdiv just so that I can select this single face here because just like before, the reason that's happening is it's like right on the edge there. It has to like convert all that into like a single point in the middle and it's just too ugly when it starts there. So, we just may have to make it start way further in the middle like that. And then when we do that, it's clear. It's practically invisible. You can only see it if you get really close, but you won't see it cuz it'll be under the donut and it'll be smooth. Anyway, um cool. Now, um I can tighten up the edges here cuz this is looking very very um smooth. So, I showed you before how you can add a loop cut. You can do CtrlR. Okay. And that'll add a loop cut in the middle. And then I just pull it out towards the edge like that to make a smoothed uh sorry a um sharpened uh point. Yeah. Anyway, um the other way to do it, which I didn't talk about, but you can do a crease. So, if we just hold down alt and then we select that line there, um you can do a crease. If you uh right click, you'll see you've got there edge crease or the hotkey shift E. So in this when you do shift E, you'll see at the top there you've you're pulling out basically a value from one to zero. Um and essentially what it's doing is it's like doing a fake kind of tighten on that edge there. So it's kind of like pulling it out and just making it a sharper point. It doesn't look as nice. You don't get as much of a bevel because there's no geometry being added there like you would if you were to actually do a loop cut. You get all this extra geometry. So, it's not it's not as good, but for like small things, it's, you know, it's generally fine to do something like that. All right, I'm going to do a shade smooth now cuz I want to see how that looks. And that's pretty good. Now, the only other thing, the exact same thing. It's weird that like three things in this small little scene have the exact same two modifiers, subserve and uh solidify. Um, anyways, generate, solidify. And just like before, we want this solidify to go first because otherwise it's doing it after the fact and then we get this like really annoying like hard line there. So just pull that up to the top. And now it's rounded. And look at that. Um but yeah, I might actually want to make this line a little bit harder. So I'll pull that in. It's still Yeah, there's just not enough geometry there. I This is one of the cases where you just need more geometry. So I'm going to add a loop cut here. And I'll add another loop cut underneath it. Like that. And now I'm going to just select this. And I'm just going to revert that edge crease. So shift E. And then I just go like minus one. Like so. And now it's just Yeah, the way it was before. But there you go. So now I've got a sharper edge on it. The only other thing I might just pull up this lip here. So alt select on that lip. G Z. And I'll just pull it up a little bit. Um, and there you go. And we would model from reference, but I actually had like a photo scan plate from Polygon, which we'll get to later. Um, but yeah, this is just modeling from that reference that I already had, but this is the design of it. So, there you go. Great. Now, let's bring back our donut and our icing. Now, I saw a comment on the last video that said, uh, you didn't make the donut lumpy like last time. It's so over. Why? Oh, ye have little faith. You think I would forget something like that? Maybe I did forget, [laughter] but I'm actually glad I did because this is a great opportunity to talk about a new tool. So, for those that haven't watched a previous version, before we did the icing, um, we made the donut lumpy, which I did by going into edit mode and then I just selected vertices using proportional editing and like, you know, like pul pulled it out, right? And just kind of like maybe I shrink some parts in this kind of thing. And the reason this is important is that this adds natural variation because you know you could have scientists working for a thousand years in a lab and they would never be able to create a donor as perfectly mathematically accurate as our 3D software has done. This is too perfect. there is natural variation and we need to see that for the eye to go this is you know a real you know uh something realistic right and it's hard to do this kind of thing after you've already added the donut sorry the icing because you can see it just has no bearing on the icing over the top right so some things in 3D are easier to do earlier than they are to do later and this is something you just learn as you do 3D like you'll you'll do so many projects where you just like you get to the end and you go like oh man why didn't I do that before I did this now this is I've like 3xed the amount of work and you just learn these things over time. However, there are certain tools um and there is one I'm going to introduce you to in a second that enable you to make these sort of changes after. Um by the way, there is a way like you can select both objects like this um which you you that is something that you can do in Blender now. You didn't used to always be able to, but you can now edit both objects together. So, I could do this. It does have like a clipping issue when you try to do like shrink fatten, but you can get some like natural lumpy variations going this way. Um, and you can do that. That's actually fine. But I do want to introduce you to a new tool that is in 5.0. Um, and it is if you select both of your icing and your doughut together, then you hit shift A and then you go lattice. There's a new option for lattice deform selected. We always had lattice, but it was very finicky to set up. But now you've got lattice deform selected. And that adds this what looks like a cube, like a bounding box over your object. Um, but it's not actually going to appear in your render. All it is is a defamation guide. So if you just select these points, you can see we are twisting the donut. But importantly, the actual donut is underneath. Like this is a modifier, right? So we're not actually changing the mesh at all. It's just doing this after the fact. And then if I just deleted my lattice, like it's it's gone. It's back to where it was. So this is a non-destructive workflow. These these little points here, they enable me to at any point in the future change and deform a mesh, which is actually really useful. And it's because you're not often in this the uh the exact circumstance where you know exactly what you're going to do and then at the end of it like you know the order in which to do things. Sometimes you're working with a client and they've got an idea for something and then far later on they're like, you know what, let's change the proportions of the car or whatever it is and you have to be able to like fix it without redoing all your mesh. So that's what a lattis can do. Now it comes by default with just this low res cube over it. But if down here you click this little uh data property uh for the lattice, you've got resolution here. So I can increase this. I can add in some more resolution here. And importantly, I want to add one in the middle here. Um, because the first thing you notice when you look at reference of donuts, um, is that besides the the lumpy shape, the bit around the middle of the doughut is often whiter and it's not as puffy. And when you look at how donuts are cooked, it's actually easy to see why. It's it's half submerged in the oil and then it is flipped over onto the other side and then the other side cooks. So, it cooks one side and then it cooks the other. and the bits uh sorry near the surface of the oil that's the the uh the oil is less hot, right? Because it's near the surface, so it's escaping. So that oil is less hot. The oil that's underneath it is much hotter and then it flips it over. And so again, you always have this bit around the middle that just isn't quite cooked as well as the other stuff. So it ends up being a little bit lighter. It's also less puffy. So no doughut actually comes out at that perfectly round shape. It's usually always kind of almost concave actually around the middle. So with this, I can select all of these points here like so. I have to shift select them. I can't do the alt click around it cuz it's not technically a mesh. Um, and then I can just scale it in like uh turn off proportional editing if you've got it on. And then just shrink it in like that. And that by itself will add just a little bit of realism to this cuz that is a detail that your eye won't notice. Everyone thinks donuts are just, you know, they're perfectly round, but they're actually not, right? They're always got this like concave kind of shape around it. So, that will add uh some realism, but then I can add in some little areas here where one part it got a little bit more puffy on that side, so that part's a little bit raised up. Um, and obviously this isn't as detailed as if you had, you know, if you were manipulating the the Taurus underneath, right? I can't do like, you know, small details. I can't, you know, sculpt in an area or do or do some crazy changes, but it's enough in in a pinch to do something like this. I'm just going to hide my plate. Um, which by the way, you can do it by hitting the eyropper, which is what I've been doing up there. So, not the eyropper, the eye icon. Um, you can also, um, do it by hitting H. So, you select an object in the viewport, you hit H, and then you hit Alt H to bring it back. So H or alt H um is a good hotkey to remember. [snorts] Um and then here, so at the bottom here, cuz yeah, the same thing will happen at the bottom. There'll be parts where like the donut looks a little bit like raised on the plate a little bit like this. Just around the middle here. Um like that. There you go. Something like that. But this is just just a small amount of defamation, right? It might seem unnecessary, but it does help. It really does help things to feel more realistic when you go to the trouble of doing some of this. Um, and it's super super important. Um, but we can also now apply it once I know that I like everything. I don't want to have this like lattice sitting over it forever. So, I can just apply that by going to uh apply and then selecting the donut. And I can also say apply there. Um, and now I can just delete this lattice. And now it's like I modeled that, right? All those shapes are now like baked into it. Um, and it looks good. As I said before, if you did want to do any more detail, you could, you know, shift select multiple objects, go into edit mode. Um, and then using proportional editing, you could also do some like more targeted tweaks. If you really wanted to, uh, you know, manipulate the donut, you could do that. So, there are things that you can do. Um, it does make a difference. it is important. Um, but you know, it is also optional, but it's it's an excuse to kind of introduce you to some more tools and things in Blender. So, I'm kind of glad that I uh didn't do it at the start because um we can introduce you to that that kind of thing. So, all right, we got a lumpy looking donut. Good for us. Now, now is the exciting bit. We can talk about rendering. Making this actually look good because this is gray. This is boring. This is called the 3D viewport view. Okay. The the reason this looks looks boring and flat is that this is cheaper for your computer to actually process just the shapes in like a gray. There's no shadows. There's no lighting. There's no surface interaction or anything like that. This is fast for your computer to see to create that pretty image that looks realistic with light calculations and everything. That is called a render. And you can do a render by either hitting F12 on your keyboard or by going to render and then saying render image. Huh. And now that has taken a snapshot. The problem is is it looks like not the view that we were looking at. So we're looking at this view. Why did we get a view up here? The reason is is that Blender will always take the render from the camera view. So remember that thing that's like way out in the middle of nowhere we haven't touched. It's taking the view from that that camera. And you can look through the camera by hitting the camera view icon over there. [snorts] So now that I'm here in this view, um, how do we move it in close? How do we get it close to our thing? So there's there's a number of like traditional ways to bring a camera into like in Blender. I'll actually show you the way I first learned to do this cuz it's actually just like natural to me. Um, but then I'll show you the method that actually most people prefer. So you can just with the camera selected, you can hit G. You can move things around like that. If you want to bring it in like just zoom to the like straightforward if you hit G and then middle mouse button that will like kind of what's it called? Dolly dolly in and out which can be uh very useful. Um and then if I want to like tilt it um I can like just hit rotate like that or I can rotate along the Z axis, right? Cuz I know how to like turn the camera. So, that was how I learned to use uh the camera and how a lot of people still like to do it. But a lot of new people prefer this because now in 5.0, it's actually just a button right here. If you click this button now, I can use the same controls that I used before um to to move the camera. Because if you don't have that checked, the moment you just like hit your middle mouse to like orbit somewhere else, it leaves the camera behind. Okay. But when you have when you're looking through the camera and you have this checked now, when I orbit around and I zoom and I do all the same controls as before, shift middle mouse, I can position the camera exactly where I want it. Get it right there um without having to worry. You just have to remember, don't then immediately orbit like you're going to go do something cuz the camera is still locked to your view. So, you have to make sure you uncheck it when you're done and then the camera is locked to that position there. Um, and by the way, this is like a small thing, but when you're working with like small objects, you often have to like change because Blender is like designed for like environment like like like big types of scenes. This this camera is just too big. So, if you go to the camera settings, click the camera thing, then go to viewport display. I just changed the display of this. This has no bearing on the actual like final render. This is just how it displays in your viewport so that it's not so gigantic it's taking over everything. All right, the other way you can quickly look through the camera is numpad zero. So numpad zero will take you in and out. All right, but now that I'm there, I can hit F12 and look at that. That is a different look. It It's still gray because the default materials are gray. Um, but you can see there is shadow there. But check this out. We can do even more. So besides just shadow, like you might notice looking, by the way, you can bring back a render by hitting F11. Uh, I should also mention, by the way, the first time you do a render, um, I think the first time, like, if you've just opened Blender for the first time and you hit render, it'll have to do a bunch of like shader compilations and stuff like that, it should only need to do that once. It shouldn't have to do it every time you open Blender. We're using EV, which is a rendering engine we'll talk about soon. Um, but this there is some of that. Every time you you render, like to when you create a new shader, it has to like develop those things. But anyways, it should it the first time it should be slow, but it should be quicker for every render after that. Okay, so there's shadow here, but you'll notice like in here there's no there's no detail whereas in the real world you would see like bounce lighting from the the end of the plate there. You would see like some crevice information. Um there would be it' be darker and things and that is because by default there's an option that is turned off. So if you go to your render properties at the top there, this has all the information just pertaining to how something is going to be rendered. And by default, ray tracing is turned off, which I think is a mistake. I think they should change it to default on because so many people don't like EV, this rendering engine, because they they think it just produces fake looking images. But when you turn on ray tracing, look at how much better that looks. Um, by the way, if you want to compare renders, you can change to a new slot and then uh you can do a render, another render, and then you've got the previous render and then uh the new render in slot two. And then you can flip back by hitting J on your keyboard. And that's a way you can like quickly compare settings, which is very useful. Um, but you can see with ray tracing turned on, this is off. Turned on, we get bounce lighting. So there's some light that's hitting the plate there and it's bouncing up. We've got like more information in the crevices. Um, and it just looks a lot more realistic than it did before. Um, you'll also have reflections when I show you some uh material properties. So, that is something you should have on all the time when you're using um EV. By the way, there is another rendering engine called Cycles, and it is much more realistic. However, it is a lot more slower. Um, it's honestly I I'm going to show you at the end a comparison between Cycles and EV, but it's actually negligible if you know the right settings for EV. So, I'm going to keep it on Eevee for the rest, which is actually good because Eevee is actually pretty powerful at doing most things. It's just it's it's a game engine style, so it's it's a rasterized rendering engine, whereas uh Cycles is a path trace rendering engine. Much more computationally heavy. Um whereas uh EV is much more faster. So, we're going to keep it on EV and I'm going to show you how to get really great results with it. And then at the end, we're going to flip it to cycles. So, if you want to see that final result, you can get it. But we're not going to start there because it's just not necessary and I don't think most people will actually need it. Okay. So, I'm going to talk about some materials. But first, um you'll notice like it's kind of annoying to have to like render something like go to render it every time you want to see um an image like that. And thankfully, you don't have to because in the top view here, these little icons, there is a mode here called render view mode. And this puts the render in real time. Look at that. I don't have to hit the render to wait to see my result. I can see it in my viewport. So, it used to be that like rendering engines were so slow that really to do a render was like a big task. You hit render and it would take hours to process something and it didn't look anything as good as this, right? But now rendering is like and computers are so fast that we can just have rendering running constantly whilst we are working and it's usually not computationally heavy. Um so this is yeah this is Eevee which is the the much faster one. um cycles would be a little slower, but still. Anyways, now that we're in render view mode, let's talk about materials. So, let's start with the like most different material. Let's go with the icing. So, looking at our icing here, if I want to make this look pink and change its overall appearance, if I go down to my material panel down here or material properties, um and then I can just click on new material. And now I've got a bunch of different options here. Okay. And these all do different things for um for for the the surface appearance. Like metallic will make it look like metal, right? Uh roughness will change like how sharp the reflection looks. Uh the base color, this is like the main one you want to change for almost every object. This is just the base color of the object. So obviously I can make that look pink like that. Let's pull in here a little bit closer. Focus on that. Um so I can make it look nice and pink. Uh, the other thing is is it's looking like way too diffused. It's almost like a chalk looking icing. But if I bring this back, I can make this look more shiny. I don't want to go like too far cuz then it's like mirror reflection. I want to go like, you know, somewhere around 2. The great thing is is we can really change these values at any point in the future. So when we add in other objects and there's different lighting setups, some of the settings can look a little off at that point. Um, so it's very very common to like once you've set up all your lighting and everything to like re-evaluate your materials, but this completely non-destructive. I can change these at any time. And now I could create some very simple materials. Like I could say, let's make this look black. Make it like a black shiny glossy ceramic mug. So, um, by the way, you'll notice I'm not going all the way to black. There's a kind of a unspoken Well, it's not unspoken. People speak it. um you shouldn't um uh go fully black or fully white or like same with like uh colors. You shouldn't go like 100% saturation on a color because things start to clip. It's maybe a little outdated as like now color management is getting so good it's it knows actually how to handle saturated stuff and like dark things, but it's still like a general rule. Um, you never want to go like fully black because things are never truly like the real black is vant black, right? Which [snorts] is like just this material which is like scientifically created to like emit no uh reflection simplifying it. But yeah, so like things will even a black mug that looks really black to you is probably not entirely black. So it's still there's going to be a little bit of lightness to it. So I'm just adding that in there. Uh the roughness. This is where I can make this. If I wanted this to look like a, you know, shiny ceramic mug, I could do something like that. These are just placeholders, by the way. I'm just using this as an example of how to create very simple um materials. Uh the plate here, uh let's go. Yeah, make it just look a little bit shinier than by itself. And then the donut, let's go give it a, you know, brownish lightish color like that. Make it a little bit darker like so. Um, another value which is super important for something like icing and and uh the donut and it's it's really important for just two things which is food and characters and it is that um when light hits objects like this they are mushy right they're made of like organic matter and so light actually enters the object and it kind of scatters around inside it and then it re-exits it. Um, it's the reason why when you like look at your hand in front of a light or the sun or something, you can see the light shining through. You can even see your bones through your hand if it's a bright enough light. Um, so it's called subsurface scattering. And that value is underneath here where it says subsurface. If you go down here, um, you want to turn the weight all the way up to one cuz this is not the intensity of it. This is just like apparently this value is supposed to be zero or one. It shouldn't be somewhere in between. to control how much of it is the scale which is how much how far into the surface will the light penetrate. Um and then you can see here you can increase this or decrease this and you can see the light kind of get into it. Now by default it looks red which I also think is a mistake. Um it's very suitable for characters because characters need red cuz inside a character is blood right but for every other thing like food it shouldn't be red. Um, and confusingly and and I know there's a mathematical reason for this because of like how light in the physics of things, but like different wavelengths travel at different speeds right inside the surf. That's how I understand it. So they've they've made the color of the subsurface um RG and B separated here. So you can see we've got red as one, then we've got green as 2, and then blue as 0.1. So essentially, I need to clear all those out and make them one, which here's a tip. You can drag over multiple values in Blender. So if you just click and drag down across something, and then you can just type in one and then hit enter and it makes all of those one. Um, and then now I can, you know, tweak this. I can make this look a little bit more milky like that. But we can, you know, we can adjust those. I'll do the same thing for my donut here. Um, give it some subsurface. Turn that up. And then I'll set this to one. And then, yeah, let's just leave it at the default value. But you can see that that's with subsurface on. Actually, let me bring the camera in. All right. I'm going to go lock it. Bring this in. And I'm going to do a before and after render. So, this is how you can use these these slots. So, this is with subsurface on. Then I'll go to slot two. And now I'm going to select this. And I'll turn it off. And then I'll do another render. And now hit J back and forth. So, that's the difference that subsurface can make to something. You can see here where it's like fully dark. It's actually now the light is passing through it and that's what gives something a milky kind of look. Um, and it's, as I said, it's it's mostly true for things like food. You can see it. I take photos of it myself all the time when I'm out and about cuz I'm like, "Look at that subsurface." And my family think I'm weird. Um, but I I think it's cool. So, anyways, there you go. So, that's that subsurface. All right. Um, I'm gonna pull the camera out to here and then um let's add a table because this has to be a table. Uh we're going to do the texturing in the next part. Um but let's add a table. Now, normally if it was a table that you were um Make sure I turn that off while I while I orbit around. You know, if this was a large scene, right, uh whatever, you would have to do like model an actual table. If you know the camera is only going to be here, doesn't matter about anything except the top surface. So, all we need to model is shift a plane. That's it. That's our table. I I just have to scale it up a little bit. But this is our table. It's actually really common in 3D if you look at like breakdowns of 3D scenes in movies and stuff. Everything is fakery. They just like buildings are cards. They just like a a plane with a texture slapped on it. Nothing is real. Um you know, when the camera moves, they might have to like model things properly and people go like, "Oh, I have to model it now." Um but like if the camera's here, it doesn't matter. Just make it a plane. Um there you go. So, that's that's a a donut on a plate with a mug. And that for somebody who has never used 3D before, that's an achievement. Um, this is the kind of thing that like back in the '90s, you probably would have won like scholarships for and stuff if you could pull this off. This used to be insanely difficult. It is still pretty difficult cuz 3D is hard. Um, but yeah, if you have uh uh if you're new at it, this should make you proud. You you've pulled this off. If you want to save this, by the way, you can go image and then go save. Um, and then you can just save an image, PNG. You got all the options, JPEG, etc. Um, however, if you want to make this look good, in the next parts, we're going to be making this look much, much better by doing some texturing and making our table look good and adding some ceramic textures and things to different objects. But this is kind of the end of the modeling section of the doughut tutorial. Um so we we touched on you know basic primitives. We add slight defamations. Um we extruded some things to uh create like an organic looking shape. Did a little bit of sculpting. Um and then we created a mug right and then did some uh modifiers and subsurf to kind of uh create the general shape there. So those are kind of some of the techniques that you will need to learn to create lots of different objects in the future. Just some though. But there are so many other techniques and tools. Uh precision modeling, modeling mostly with hard objects, how to keep straight lines and then modeling something that is really custom and deformed. Getting those like largeish shapes there and just kind of like almost using the mesh like a guide mesh to kind of uh create shapes. And then actual characters like sculpting a character from nothing and then actually converting that character into something that looks and has like like subdivision so that the arm can move and then rigging that character so that you can actually move the arms like a puppet. So these are the kinds of techniques that we don't have time to go into in the donut but I do have time to go into in my course called the beginners academy. So all of these things you can see on the screen here are taught in that academy. If you only want to learn Blender for free and you just want to do this donut, that is fine. But if you want to go further and you want to learn how to actually think like a 3D artist and take an idea from your head and actually convert that into something that you can use, whether that be for 3D printing or for rendering or for whatever visualization purpose you have. Um, that's what this course is about. It's teaching you those foundational skills um to actually um create something that you want to create. So, if you're interested in that, uh the link for that is uh beneath this video and um it is designed for complete beginners who have finished the donut. But you've learned enough now that if you want to jump straight to that, you could. But if you want to continue on, we will jump into texturing next. I will see you in the next