Welcome back. It is time to make our coffee mug look like a coffee mug and not like a sad little cup. So, [gasps] we could try to model this from our imagination cuz like, hey, we all pick up coffee mugs. We know what they look like or we think we know what they look like. Something that you learn very quickly in 3D is that uh when you model something from imagination, it almost always comes out looking a little bit funny. And the reason for that is that your brain is very good at like abstracting away the information that isn't important to it. Like if you just close your eyes right now and just think of a doorork knob, like what does a door do look like, right? If you had to make one in Blender, what would it be? It's like, okay, well, it's like a sphere bit. You like grip it, you turn it, and there's like a cylinder thing at the back, and there's a cylinder that connects it, and that's kind of that's kind of it. But then if you were to make that, you end up with something that looks really basic and boring and bad and then you go actually look at a real doorork knob and you forget there's all this other detail that's just not important to your brain. Like the little lip inside, the little hole that's on there that so you can put a key in to kind of like pry it open or a uh like a a rim that kind of like cuts into it so there's like a separate seam around it. There's the privacy lock on the front. all these things that just don't matter to you when you're turning a handle and so you forgot that they even existed because you never even saw it really. So the same thing applies to even something as common as a coffee mug. So it helps when possible to use reference images. Now you can get reference images from anywhere because we have the power of the internet and you can type in handmade coffee mug and you can pick any mug you want to create. Um, and uh, there's a lot. And you know, if you want to pick one of these, if you want to just go on Google images, uh, you can pick one of these and and go for it. I'm going to give you an image that I've used. Um, but you can there's there's some really pretty ones here. And I was, uh, actually shocked [laughter] just whilst like clicking on some of these sites before, I was like, "Oh yeah, like that's a cute cute little handmade mug." And then you go like, "Oh my gosh, $123.25 and that's a discount from 145." [gasps] And then you think like, "Oh, it must be like a one of one like, you know, a unique thing." Like, no, there's like nine reviews. Like people are buying it. I I'm like I don't know. I [clears throat] got to make more money or something. Like I don't know how people are buying $123 coffee mugs. I think it's also like we forget what labor costs, you know, like you think like a coffee mug is like $2, right? Or a dollar or it's free. Like it's just there's so many of them it doesn't even matter. But like no, like to hand make something like obviously any of these mugs, they're they take more than a few hours to make if you're making it by hand. So like yeah, $33 is probably like break even for them. I don't probably not even making any [laughter] money, but it's just like Yeah. Anyways, whole side topic of like the economy of handmade ceramic mugs. Um, but people are buying them for $123. All right. So, all that is to say is I want you to get an image. And the one I'm going to use, uh, the link for this is below. Um, and uh, it's on my website. I've got all the links to everything we're going to be using in this tutorial. Um, but there there's two ways to add images. Uh, so one way is to go to the ad menu and then just go image and then say reference. Um, and then you just pick wherever the reference is. Um, and you can drop it in the alternative way. Um, and it's something that we didn't used to be able to do, and that's to just, uh, drag over from wherever it is on your computer and then just drop it into Blender, and it will recognize it as an image, and it will bring it in as an image object. So, either of those ways will work. So, this is the image. This is the one we're going to use. Now, if you quickly orbit around, you'll notice that it's come in at a funny angle. Um, now, but I don't know why Blender does this. I think I think it's because they they think they people want it locked to the perspective that they were at when they brought it in there, but that I've [clears throat] never needed that. So, we just need to clear this rotation and then rotate it to the the way we want. So, to clear the rotation, I'm going to hit alt R. The alternative way, object, clear rotation. Alt R. It's the same thing. Um, now it's flat. So, now we need to rotate it proper upright so that it is flat on to, you know, how it should be relative to the scene. So, I need to rotate it. So, I'm going to hit R. So, but we're now in freehand rotate mode. And it's again, it's it's relative to where we were looking at it. Um, which is, uh, yeah, this this funny angle. So, uh, if you remember from before, when we're in a move state, like rotate, scale, or grab, uh, we can lock something to a specific axis whilst we're in this mode by just tapping the letter of that axis. And if you don't know the letter, you can see we we really want it on this red line here. And that red top right hand corner that is the X axis. So I'm going to hit X. There we go. So now it is locked to that axis which is good. And now we want it to be 90°. So you could either hold down control and you can see in the top uh what that does is that's now um moving it in 5° increments. Or you could just type in the number 90 on your keyboard and then hit enter. And there we go. So that's how we bring it in and uh clear the rotation and set it up. So, all right. Now, it's way too big. So, hotkey to scale something. S. Okay. S to scale. And now I'm just going to scale this down. And I can't see my mug. So, my mug is behind it. So, let me just move my mug I'll move my mug forward. So, let's move it forward to there. Okay. All right. And then now, um, I'm going to look at it like front on. Okay. So, I can do that by clicking this little uh minus Y at the top there. That'll do front on. or the hotkeys. Um, because I use my numpad. For those of you blessed with a numpad, you'll you'll like it. You can hit numpad one, that's front view, numpad three, that's side view, or numpad 7, that is top view. Um, but I use those uh a lot. But again, you can use these if you don't have it. Okay, so front view, and then I'm going to scroll in to zoom. Shift middle mouse to pan to the side. And now I'm going to move this over here. And I'm going to scale this down again to get it roughly to be the size of my my mug here cuz I know that this mug is right relative to the donut. So, it should be good. And then what I'm looking at um for the size of this image here is I want the top of this rim here to roughly match the bottom down there. So, this like I want that to match that. So, it's still a little bit too big. Um and you'll notice I can't really easily do it from this angle. I mean I I can but the the problem is is that this photograph is taken with a camera from the real world where there is perspective but we are looking in 3D and actually when we're in an axis like this the reason it all becomes flattened is because it is in perspective mode. If you click that little button there that'll actually put you back into perspective mode and you can see how things get distorted and like angles and things. So the best reference is actually reference which is in orthographic like blueprints for something but you usually don't have that. So you just go from something like this and just kind of best guess it. Anyways, okay, cool. So that's roughly roughly the right size of uh of image. Now we can model by going into uh edit mode by hitting tab toggle in and out of edit mode. And we can start to shape this to look like this mug here. So the first thing that we'll notice is like the general broad shape of the mug is that it actually kind of tapers towards the top. both lines are kind of tapered upwards. Um, and then there's like a kind of a midpoint around about here where it starts to invert and it goes in the other direction. Okay. So, it's very smooth object and perfect for using subsurf modifier, which is what we've already got. So, to get that taper going up to the side, I want to shrink the top of the mug here just a little bit. So, I'm going to hold down alt and uh I'm going to go into edge select mode at the top there and then alt and then just leftclick on that line there. Not on like like a middle point like here or it'll select a different edge, but just on the middle there. And then now I want to scale this in to just shrink the size just a little bit. So, I'm going to scale that to there. And then I'm going to select the line underneath it and I'm going to do the same thing. So, alt click on that line, that edge, uh and then just scale it. you know, about halfway there. [snorts] Now, I want to create um this like widened point right here. And you can see like from here, like there's there's a lip at the bottom, but like from here to here, and then it goes up, I'd say probably 20% up the mug, that's where that middle point is. So, this line is close, but I'd probably pull it up a little bit. So, I'm going to double tap G, and that'll let me slide that edge there. And I'll put it to Yeah, it's about there. And now I want to pull it out to make it a little bit uh a little bit thicker. So, I'm going to hit S and just pull that out to about there. And now I can see this line here is not quite right. So, I'm going to scale this one out as well, just a little bit. Okay, that's roughly the right shape. Okay. Now, this bit at the bottom here. Okay. So, I can see already that I need a little bit more detail. So, I'm actually going to have to slide this line up here. So, I'm going to hit uh double G to just kind of slide it up. And I'm going to pull it to about there. You can see now we've got kind of a more curved taper on that edge there. And I'm going to hit S to scale. And I'm going to double tap G again. And I'm just by eye just guessing to try to get this form here. Um but you can see you can very quickly start to shape any sort of object you want um by just moving sliding lines around and um scaling things. Okay. So now obviously this face at the bottom here. So if I go into face select mode or by just hitting three um this has to be this little uh lip at the bottom there. What do you call that? I guess like a lip. It's probably a word for it. All the all the pottery people watching this tutorial going to tell me what it is and they'll also tell me about the price of manual labor and why that coffee mug was quite well priced I'm sure. [laughter] Um anyways uh I'm going to yeah I'll scale it in a little bit. I'm just trying to guess like where would it start? But you know you just do it by eye. I think about there. Okay. And now with this face here selected, I need more geometry cuz I want to actually pull it out from that face there. Um, but I can't just like pull it down, right? Cuz now it's stretching it. I need more geometry. Um, and so that is called an extrusion. And thankfully the hotkey for extrusion is just the first letter of its name, which is E. E for extrusion. And just like inset and everything else in Blender, the moment you tap it, you're now in that mode. Um, I can pull it upwards, I could pull it downwards. Um, obviously downwards is what we want. So, I'm going to do a single click right there. Okay. And then now if I go back and just look at it in object mode. Um, and by the way, if you want to see it like the donut, you want to make it look uh smooth, you can as well by going to shade smooth. Um, and that's okay. But you can see that this line here, this is a much tighter line. Okay. Um, and the reason that this is happening is of course because of subsurf modifier um, and the way that it works. Um, it's essentially going from here to here and then kind of like I guess like a a midpoint in the middle there. And it's trying to taper from there all the way in. But then also from this point here, it now has to taper from there to kind of smooth out that line. So we end up with just kind of like this like very smoothed out little nub. Um, but to fix it, we just have to add in more geometry so that it doesn't start the smooth so so much further up. So to do that, we need another loop cut, which you might remember the hotkey or you can find it in the menu, edge, loop cut, and slide, but it is ctrlr. So ctrlr. When you're in this mode, where do you want to put it first? So do a single click on this face here. So click and then it's now saying where do you want to slide it to? So I'm going to slide one to the bottom like so. And then I need another one right above it. So, I did a click there to confirm it. So, I'm going to hit CtrlR. And now placing it on the exact same place. And I'm just going to pull it up. And there we go. And now you can see it's much tighter at the bottom there. Um, and it looks good. Uh, and if you really wanted to clean up this bottom base there, you can see we kind of got that like starfishy pattern happening. You could do the same thing we did before, which is select that face there and then do an inset. It's not really that essential. No one's really going to notice it, but you might. and maybe you want to clean it up. So, yeah, but that's pretty good. That's that's great. That's a good start to the mug. Um, it looks good. Awesome. Well done. Now, it's time for the challenge of making this handle. So, you can see it starts about here and then obviously extrudes around and goes back into itself and is joined here. So, how do we do this? So basically whenever whenever there is a join and you can see there's like you know like a nice like uh bevel edge there kind of thing it has to physically be part of the geometry of this. You can't just have it like existing out in in space cuz then it won't appear to be joined together. So essentially we have to find somewhere on this mesh to start the handle from. Um and that point is actually here. Right here which is why I've modeled it this way. Right here is where I'm going to extrude out. Um, now before I show you how to uh extrude, I first of all want to show you I'm going to do something and it's going to mess it up and I'm going to then show you why we need to do something else first before we start extruding. So, if I was to extrude this out, um, we could do the whole handle here, get it back there, make it look perfect, and then later on look at our mug and go, "Oh no, what is going on?" The reason this happens is because of you might remember the solidify modifier which these modifiers they're not part of the mesh, right? It's it's happening after um after the fact. So it's adding a thickness to any mesh that we have here and it's now adding a thickness to the actual handle itself. So how do we fix that? We fix that by making making this go from a modifier to real like actually bake it into the mesh so that it's actually real geometry. Um, and the way you do that is uh first of all, let me just undo all of those. Ctrl Z, of course. The way you do it is by going to the modifier and then in the little drop down in the top there, right next to that little camera icon, there is an apply. So when you click that, it's disappeared. And now when you go into edit mode though, you can see all that geometry that wasn't there before is now actually part of it. And you can see it if you turn off the subsurf modifier. So I can now make changes to the inner part of my uh model there without it having affecting um the rest of it. So it's actual real uh mesh that we can we can manipulate. Um obviously the downside is it's no longer uh non-destructive. So that slider that we had for changing the thickness of the mug, we no longer have the slider. It would just mean if we wanted to change the thickness of the of the mug, we would have to like do it ourselves, like selecting all that stuff and doing it. But that's fine. You have to uh break uh break the workflow eventually to add in customization. But there you go. So anyways, now that I've got this, now when I select this face here, I can start to do the extrusion. So importantly, make sure you're selecting the right face. If you were to select this one by mistake and then start trying to do your handle and then like twist it around, you it would start to get screwed up very very quickly. So, make sure that you've got this red line that's like intersecting your mug there that it is. Yeah. Like it's that one. It's like bang on to the middle. And you can actually check if you go into top view mode. It should be directly in the middle of uh of the mug there. Okay. So, with that selected, I'm going to go into front view mode with uh numpad one or hitting that little uh green thing. And then I'm going to hit again the hotkey that we use for extrusion is E to extrude out. Now, when you do that, it's using the normals, the hidden um it's like the hidden direction of each of the faces that are on your mesh. Okay? So, it's kind of extruding it out like that. For most of you watching this, the extrusion there worked perfectly. But every now and then you go to extrude something and it doesn't work. And it's because there's something wrong with the normals of the face that you tried to extrude from. Basically, it would just mean um you would have to clear the normals first. So basically, you would select the the face, then hit shift N, and it would clear normals. I've got, by the way, throughout this tutorial that you're going to run into a lot of problems that I I might not be able to explain to you. So, I've actually created um a troubleshooting guide called the unstuckyour yourself guide. So, the link for that is below as well, but this is just like a database of all the problems you might run into whilst you're doing this tutorial because we noticed um on the uh Blender Guru Discord, link for that is below as well where you can ask questions and share your renders and stuff. Um a lot of people are asking the same questions. So, we put together this like FAQ troubleshooting guide and um please make use of that. So there'll probably be when when you're modeling things, people will run into issues. So just uh have a look at that if you run into an issue first. Anyways, sorry to really painfully slowly do this, but we've extruded out a little bit. Um now I'm going to move this up. So just grabbing. So G to grab. I'm going to move up. And I might actually now I'm going to tab out to so that I can select my image. So I'm in object mode. And I'm actually just going to move this over. So G and then X. move it over to be about there. Okay. And that'll just enable me to kind of see relative to to the mug where it should go. Like what is the shape? I could do it by eye, but yeah, I figure might as well just it's right there. Might as well just grab it and pull it over. So, um I need to position this about here, but you can see it's kind of getting like skewed, right? Um and that is because it's uh it's obviously coming in at like a like this slanted angle. So, with that face selected, um, I need to rotate it. So, I'm going to hit R to rotate. Like so. Okay. So, like that. All right. And I might Just trying to think. All right. I definitely need a loop cut because obviously that bit that's coming out looking like a knob on our mug there. So, I'm going to hit CtrlR to create a loop cut. And I'm going to pull it down just so that I can see it's like where where it should join basically at the base there. All right. Great. And now face select mode. Select that face again. And now we just have to keep extruding around. But what I want to do is I want to scale. Just make the handle look a little bit thinner. So I'm going to select this top edge here. And I'm going to double tap G just so that I can slide it downwards a little bit to just make it a little bit thinner cuz that handle obviously doesn't look as as fat as uh as what we had there. So all right. So face select mode now. And now I'm going to start to extrude. So another extrusion. G to reposition. R to rotate it. And I just want to rotate it so that it kind of follows the contours of uh of this. So I'm going to be rotating it like this kind of angle as we go around. So now E to do another extrusion. Click. G. Click. R. Now, by the way, there is another way to extrude which is actually kind of perfect for this. Um, but if you hold down control and then rightclick, it will not only extrude, but it will also rotate the faces so that they align. And it can be a little helpful um, a bit more easier than doing this like E, G, R, S, G, R, like, so just holding down control and then rightclick will just place these little points um, and will rotate them so that you don't have to do all that rotation yourself. It really only works for these kind of appendages like this, but might as well use it because it's a very um handy way to do it. Okay, cool. So, now now the tricky bit. It's not really that tricky. It's it's relatively easy to solve, but it's it's a conundrum, right? Like how do we make this mesh with the rest of the mesh? Um, and you do that by like the wrong way to do this would be to just like kind of like smush them together, right? And this is kind of like early 3D stuff. like a lot of stuff was like this. This kind of mashed stuff and intersected it together, but then you don't get that edge there where it like catches the light. And the only way to really get that is to actually physically like join this mesh together. So this face here has to be connected to this face somehow. Um and the easiest way in this case to do is to first of all we can see that this line here is like cutting into the middle of this uh this this copy, right? So, we really need to just add a line that goes around there to make this this area here like one face to match um this sorry this this this handle. So, I'm going to add that line by hitting CtrlR loop cut click and then I'm going to slide it up to be you know roughly about there. That's fine. And then now um because I've intersected it that that went too far. Um so I'm holding down Z. Um, now this is a way of quickly changing the mode that you're you're viewing something in. Um, and we'll we'll get to these other two once we get to materials rendering and stuff, but for now, if you just swap to wireframe mode, this will show you through the mesh. Um, there is another way to see through a mesh, and that is to at the top there, that little X-ray or alt Z is a hotkey for it. Um, but that's that's another way to do it. Um, but yeah, that you can see that's that's wireframe. And then, oh, hang on a second. Nope, that's that's X-ray. This is wireframe. But yeah, they're they're are they're pretty similar. Anyways, so I'm gonna select my my face here and I'm just going to pull it out just so that I can just just grab it basically. And now I can go back to my solid view as before. Okay, so I touched on this briefly before, but like a mesh is made up of these individual points, right? This is what you're seeing when you're in uh verticy mode, these individual points. Um and each of those points when you have four together, three or more actually, um you can create a face. Um and so that's what that is. So essentially I need to create a new face for this section right here. So let's do that now. So I'm going to select those two and I've just selected them by holding down uh shift like this. And then I'm just going to hit F. Face. Okay. And then I can do the same on this side like that. And then I'm going to do the same on the top. And then I'm going to do the same underneath. Okay. All right. So I've done it. But and I did it deliberately this way because I need to show you um the the reason for this this issue here. So we've got yeah we we've we've got the faces so they should be going smoothly across here. But because of the way meshes work and the way they try to sorry the way shoot uh smooth shading works is it does it based on like a continuous flow of faces. And you will have noticed that when we created this there was actually a face that is inside here before we joined it. Okay, which and I'll I'll show you. If we go into here, this area here, you should see there is a face that is right here. So, because that exists, the smooth shader doesn't actually know that it's supposed to continue on because there's a face that goes down. So, it's now kind of mixed. It doesn't know like it has to create a smooth shading here, but then also one on the top there. And so, it's done this weird um hybrid thing where it's like it's tried to do it, but there's clearly something going on underneath. So, what we need to do is just delete that face. So, again, in face select mode, you select that inner face there. And by the way, when you're working in 3D, this is a really common thing beginners do. They select the wrong face. So, you can see how quickly that like they're right next to each other, that point there, right? But selecting one or the other, it it just happens all the time. So, a thing that a lot of 3D artists do is when they've selected something before they delete it, you just do a quick orbit around and that'll just like break the perspective and just to verify that that is the actual one I mean to select. Okay. Then I'm going to hit X and I'm going to say faces. Okay. But it's not just that one, right? Like that. Actually, that that should be fixed soon, but anyway, I'll show you how. Um, and then there's one on the inside here as well. Okay. Cuz when we joined it, there was there was a face here and there was a face over there. So I'm now going to delete that face by hitting X and then say faces. Okay, now that's done. This should be correct. But the reason it's not is one I think if I need to right click and say shade smooth and that has fixed it. What on what can happen sometimes is when you've fixed up some geometry um you might need to uh recalculate the normals like which and again to bring up the normals there's a secret hidden line uh that every face on your your object has and they're always pointing outward like that. But when you've created new mesh and you've kind of fix things or whatnot, you can end up with one of these lines that goes the wrong direction. Um and I'll show you that actually if I just do this. um that's what it might look like. You get this weird like black shading artifacts. Um that's very ugly. So to fix that, you select your entire mesh and then you hit shift N and that will recalculate it. Um and now you can see the smooth shading is correct. And just to show you quickly as well, um the way I did it just then where we like created it and then we deleted the faces. Don't do this. I'm just going to show you like actually what you would do cuz it's not this tedious. Normally, if you had this problem, you would actually select this face and this face first. You delete them ahead of time and then actually, and there's a faster way to have uh created this this join here. Um you can select that entire edge loop with alt then shift alt select that. And now I could rightclick and say bridge edge loops, which you only can do if you've got the exact same number of uh vertices on one side as the other. But I want to just show you physically creating those points with uh vertices cuz that is a really common way to to model to join things together. You select the four vertices, you create a new face. Anyways, look at that. We've got what looks like a handle coming out of the mug. Now, if we look at our reference here, um we've got it pretty close, but you can see that there's like it's sharp, right? There's there's clearly like a crease here and a crease here. Um, and we can do that just by adding in more loop cuts. So, I'm going to add in uh well, I guess there's two ways to do it. One, I can actually just select this edge here. So, holding down alt, just select that and then double tap G and I can bring that in. Um, but when I do that, this area becomes a little bit straight. Um, maybe not what I wanted. Let's have a look at front mode. Um, yeah, I might want a little bit more detail there, which case I would add a loop cut. Um, but you know, it's really up to you. You might be able to just, you know, move this around and just kind of shape it. Like, look, we're really we're learning Blender. That's really the [laughter] goal of this. It's not necessarily to make a physically accurate uh mug. I don't want to over complicate things and make things feel like you have to do everything perfectly, but I also don't want to end up with like a trash result and then everyone be like, "Oh, we did all that effort and now it looks garbage." Um, but you know, you could spend a lot of effort. You know, you could even try and get like if you look at, you know, uh there would be probably like a little line here like like the kind of, you know what I mean? Like on the inner inner part of the the thing, you could try and create that. You could really add a lot of detail. The only thing I'm really going to fix is right here where it's pinching. I'm just going to select that edge there and I'm going to double tap G. I'm just going to slide it up so there's just a little less pinching. And then this part here like you can see the shape of this face is being very distorted. Right? You generally want to keep things as close to a squareish shape as possible generally. Um and so I'm just going to select this edge at the bottom there. Double tap G. And I'm just going to pull it out just to relieve a little bit of the the tension there. And I mean that's I mean you can Yeah, there's obviously there's like a tighter line there but this will do. this this is enough to be uh perceived as a coffee mug. Now, if you want to just move ahead with the tutorial and get on to the next part, which is going to be on uh materials and lighting, um you can you can do that. However, if you want a little bit of a challenge, like a little bit of a homework, um where you can try to use some skills but by yourself, you will see looking at the photo here that we also have a saucer, a little tiny plate for our mug. Um, now I didn't include that in my final image. Um, I just had the coffee mug just sitting on the table. Um, but this is a great very small thing that you could try to model by yourself using the skills that you've just learned um to to create something new. So, how would you go about adding that saucer? You could have a have a try at it. It it's a completely separate object obviously to your mug here. So, even if you screw it up, worst case scenario is you just delete it and then, you know, you'll still end up with something that I actually had for my final result, which was a mug without a saucer. But, if you want to add that in, it'll be a way to kind of take some of the lessons that you've uh you've you've picked up already and then try to remember them and the different steps and the things um required to create it. Because whilst you've just created something now, it's the best time to try to recall that memory so that in the future, maybe in a few days or a few weeks from now, when you try to do something yourself, it'll be a lot more readily available to recall that information. So, if you want to have a go at doing that, uh, feel free to. Otherwise, join me in the next part and we'll get on to some materials and texturing.