In this video, I'm going to show you how to use the new scatter on surfaces modifier that was introduced in Blender 5.0 to add some lovely sprinkles to our donut. But first, we need to model those sprinkles because you can't scatter nothing. Um, and I want to add my sprinkle on top of my doughnut or close to it just so that I can see relatively the size of it is correct for the donut. Um, and so how can you do that? How can you add an object and place it somewhere in the same motion? Um, and you can do that by moving the 3D cursor, which is this little guy down here. And sometimes it's in a weird place and you're like, why did it end up there and how can I move it? So, you can move it by holding down shift and then right mouse dragging and then that'll place it on the surface underneath uh your mouse. Um, so yeah, it's placed it right there. Um, I might actually move it up a little bit. Just kind of Yeah, just about there. Yeah. So, I want to see it just above my donut. All right. So, now we need to add a new object, and that is going to be a cylinder, of course. So, add mesh and then cylinder. You could also use a sphere if you wanted to, if you want to get like round sprinkles. I'm not a fan of those. They're too crunchy and just like I don't know. I always like the long ones. So, we're going with the long sprinkle with the cylinder. And just like before, we're going to go in the last use settings here. I'm going to change my radius to the smallest cuz I mean, hey, we're making a sprinkle. And yeah, let's start. Let's start there. Um, so probably should be a little bit bigger than that. So, um, obviously if you just like click and drag on this, it's just way too sudden movement, but holding shift might remember I mentioned that. That'll use like smaller increments. So, I think that's Yeah, that's pretty good. And then I'll just increase the depth of this to make it a little bit longer. You know, something like that. It's just a a starting block before we actually start editing it. The main one though is the vertices. So, I want to add like a really um Oh. Oh. Oh gosh, I hit the wrong button on my Zoomit tool and I flew in there. But all right, we can work with this. I want to add a rounded corner to my uh sprinkle there. So, we're going to be using a subserve modifier. Um, and if we were to add it on a mesh with 32 vertices, every level of subdiv would like double that. So, it' go 64 and then, yeah, 128, right? So, um, way too much. So, I'm going to drop this to six vertices. So, super low poly, but, uh, it's what we're going to use. All right. Now, add my subsurf. Uh, I'm going to move me just to the side here so I'm not blocking everything. That's kind of the the optimal place I've found for me is like just right on that line. I only have to move my head sometimes when I do that, but otherwise I shouldn't be blocking too much. Anyways, um now add modifier, generate, and we're going subdivision surface. And there we go. So, um the reason we've got this uh diamond shape is as I've mentioned before, it's using the like middle points of each face essentially. So, it has to go from here to the middle point of this giant long face. So, to here. So, it's now averaging out those points. But if I want to make a tighter, rounder bit around here, I just have to basically move out a point here to to add that that roundness to it. So it only goes to there. And then I would also do another one here so that it's the the same thing on the bottom. So in edit mode, tab, I'm going to hit CtrlR uh to add my loop cut. And then it's obviously saying where do you want to place that loop cut? So click there and then just slide it up to the somewhere near the top like that. Click. And then do the same for the bottom. Control-r, click, slide to the bottom. [snorts] Okay. And now let's have a look at that. Just have a look in relation to the size of the doughnut. Do we want it any bigger? Do we want to change the size? All right. Now, um, yeah, I'm going to rightclick it and I'm going to say shade smooth just so that I can see how that looks. Okay. Now, we could begin scattering at this point. Um, but if we did, we would end up with the same this exact same sprinkle all over it. and that much repetition to your eye just looks fake. Like every single sprinkle actually the way they make sprinkles is just like from a piping bag, right? So you just literally just pipe out a bunch of uh this, you know, uh piping, right? Glaze. Um and then it dries and then you just like break it up. So they all end up in different sized um shapes and stuff. So we need to add more sprinkles uh just of different shapes and sizes. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to first of all uh rename this by hitting F2. I'm going to call it oh boy late in the day sprinkle. Okay. And now we haven't really mentioned collections before, but they're basically buckets and you can move things in and out of buckets. So there's a default one that comes in here. Um, but you can move it out of this whole collection by just taking the sprinkle, clicking, and dragging it up. So I'm going to drop it into my scene collection there. And the reason I'm doing that is now I'm going to select this whole thing and I'm just going to exclude. Okay. So now when you hit exclude, it's not going to show up in your viewport or your render. It's effectively like it has vanished from the scene, but you can easily bring it back there. So it's just a way to like quickly edit, you know, a bunch of different things and then bring back the rest of your scene. Okay, so here is my sprinkle. I want to create variants of it. So first I'm going to go into front view mode and then focus. So one and then numpad period. Now, what I want you to do is to create some variance by duplicating your sprinkle and creating different twists and turns and shapes and things. And I'm not going to walk you through uh doing this. You should be able to do it if you've been following the series. But also, I want to tell you something more important that every Blender user needs to hear. Blender needs your help. When you downloaded Blender, you might remember that it didn't ask for your credit card, which is good. Means that everybody in the world can have free access to 3D and try it out. But what's bad is that Blender doesn't have as much money as it needs to develop the software. There are so many areas of Blender that they want to improve, they want to develop, but they lack the funds, texture painting, the whole physics engine, sculpting tools, the compositor. So, the headquarters of Blender, which is in Amsterdam in the Netherlands, if you didn't know, uh they hire some full-time developers to work there in their offices and also some full-time contractors from around the world to contribute and work on these features. Um, and they get the funding from that from the dev fund, which is the engine that enables Blender. So, if you have been enjoying this donut series and you've been enjoying Blender, please donate. If you can go here and join a monthly donation of 510 or if you're a high roller 25 or higher is amazing. This will enable more people who can't afford this to uh to try out Blender to to download it and so the software can remain competitive cuz I don't know if you know this but Autodesk made $315 million from 3ds Max and Maya last year. Blender doesn't have that money. So, if you want Blender and Open Source to win, we do need people to donate. So, please consider the link is underneath this video. You can click that and um please uh make a donation. All right, with that spiel out of the way, we can get back to it. So, I'm going to bring back my scene now. All right, pull it out. And um yeah, let's let's let's move this into a new collection. So, we briefly talked about collections, but they're essentially buckets. They're just ways to organize objects into different buckets. And you can reference those buckets in different parts of Blender. But that's basically it. So, I want to create a bucket, a collection for my sprinkles. Now, you can create a new collection by hitting that little button at the top there, and you can just create a bunch of different collections and rename them. But if you want to move something and create a collection at the same time, you can do that as well. So, if you select all your objects here or you select them here in the outliner, then you just hit M. M to move. You can move it to an existing collection or you can create a new collection and move it there. So that's what we're going to do. So I'm going to call this sprinkles. Okay. And now that I've got that, I'm actually going to uncheck it because we don't actually need to see the sprinkles um visibly in order to reference them in our scatter system. So otherwise they just kind of get in the way there. So all right. So here it is. Exciting moment. With your icing selected, we are going to add in a modifier and it is the brand new scatter on surface modifier which is only there as of Blender 5.0. If you don't see it, you're not using 5.0 or at least you're not using a version later than 5.0 if you watch this at a later time. So, scatter on surface. All right. So, so many little settings and things, but it's very wellm made. It's uh I actually love it. It's a fantastic modifier. I'm so happy that it exists. Um, but anyways, the first thing we need to reference is here. What object are we scattering? That's the instancing here. Okay. So, we're not uh uh instancing one object. We're going to do the entire collection. So, go collection and then here click on sprinkles. And look, we've got not what we expected. What's going on? &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Um, so the first thing we need to do is uh first of all, why is there only one of them? That's because density is really low. If we increase density, we get more of them. But still, it's it's just getting worse. Andrew, what's going on? Um, so first of all, uh, underneath instancing, you need to check pick instance. That's the first thing. And that is so that it doesn't reference the entire group as one thing to be uh, scattered. you're instead referencing the individual parts of that collection, which is the individual sprinkles. And then as well as that, it has reset the transform because like it bases it off of how far away is it from the center of the thing. But if you go reset, then it actually bases it on the point of those sprinkles. Okay, cool. So, ooh, look, we've got a alien looking landscape or something, right? Um, but yeah, you can see you can increase this. The higher you go, the more sprinkles you will get. Um, how do we change the rotation? So underneath transform. Oh, right here. Right where my head and everything is. Transform. Okay. You get extra settings here. So we want to change the alignment axis. Um, and you can just cycle through it until you get the correct one. But yeah, it looks like Y is the one. And then also, man, I should just Hang on a sec. Let me just move me. Yeah, a little bit. Yeah, there we go. Okay. Randomize. So this is cool. Um so if we add randomize here, check that box, then go here. Now we can randomize and add slight variances to um how it is being rotated. So to rotate on the Y-axis, we just increase that to 360. And look at that. We've got sprinkles on the donut. But we can go further. We can do so much more. Um there's a setting at the top here which is called surface offset cuz you can see how it's like they're submerged in the icing. Now, sprinkles do submerge a little bit in wet icing, but probably not as much as this. So, I just want to increase this very, very slightly. So, if I just hold down shift and kind of drag out, I can get it to there just resting on top like that. You wouldn't believe, by the way, how much effort it was to create this in Blender previously. Like, bit of brief history on scattering in Blender. The old old way uh was to use the particle system in Blender which was like old and legacy and it was badly coded and it kind of worked but it was you know it was annoying. Um and then they came out with geometry nodes which was all mathbased and mathematical but to do stuff like this required so much work to set it up and then now they've come out with scatter on surface which is still geometry nodes. So, if you don't know geometry nodes, there's a tab at the top there. You can click it and this is what it looks like. It's nodes, right? Um, but the cool thing is is that this just comes packaged with Blender now. And this is already done. So, the guys at the Blender Institute that uh, you know, need your money, right, so that they can keep working, they came up with this uh, crazy math-based thing. So, it's got all the options that we need that everyone will ever need. and then only one person needed to do it and then we can all access it for free. So it means that creatives don't have to dive into math just to scatter some sprinkles on a donut, which is what the last three versions of this donut tutorial had to do. And then everyone complained that it was too technical. And it's like, yeah, I know, but how else are you going to get the sprinkles on the donut? Anyway, all right. So the next thing you're probably wondering looking at this is um how do we scatter it in just a specific area? Okay? Because you'll see, and in fact, if you select your icing and then uh forward slash, we've got sprinkles everywhere, the underside, etc. So, we only want them around the top of the donut. So, how do we do that? Well, there is a way to reference an attribute inside of this. I'll show you soon. Um, but the attribute we're going to use is called weight painting. And you can activate that by going uh at the top of your screen there and changing from object mode to weight paint mode. Um, and I'm going to deactivate my sprinkles so that I can just see the icing. Now, if you were to click and drag across it when it is active in this state, you'll see that you get like a a heat map. And as you can probably guess, where it is red is going to be where your sprinkles are. And where it is black, it's where your sprinkles are not going to be. And if you want to get technical, weight paint mode is actually adding an attribute to the mesh, which is where it is red, that is a value of one. Where it is black is a value of zero. And then varying values between there. essentially a heat map of values which are stored in the mesh and then other parts of Blender can reference this. So it's a very quick way to just do some painting on a mesh um to to reference in different things. Now uh what is not clear though is that when you're painting in this mode if you go into the uh isolated view by hitting forward slash you might notice that you have accidentally painted through your mesh. I wish it wasn't like this, although I understand why it is because people that are rigging often want this turned on. But your brush, you want to check front faces only because if you don't do that, then you'll still get your sprinkles underneath your doughut. So, now that I've got that, um, I'm going to Yeah, I mean, you can like paint over the mesh like this. A quicker way to do it would be to, um, go into here where my head is, data, then go into edit mode, right? Like this, right? So edit mode, everything is selected. If I drop my weight to zero and then say assign then go back into uh weight paint mode, everything is black because this vertex group thing here, this is the weight paint, right? So you can select everything if you want and just make it entirely one or you can um make it entirely zero. Anyways, now that I've got that, as you can tell, I've got front faces on. Now I can do my painting. All right, so where do you want your sprinkles to go? You just do that painting, right? Um, and you can have, you know, you can change the weight of the brush as well. If you want there to be like a lot that's kind of just like on the edge, right? You could do something like that. But generally, you know, it doesn't have to be that, you know, that perfect. You know, I'm just doing this as an example of how you could, you know, really do. You could also go like weight one and then turn the strength down. And then now as you paint, you get like, you know, different amounts of buildup. But, you know, how detailed do you want? Like, do you want I don't think anybody's ever going to look at your doughnut render and go like, "Wow, the distribution of those sprinkles is amazing. You did a great job distributing the sprinkles." But they might notice it if it if it looks fake. You know, so it's it's one of those things that seems like pointless in 3D. Like you watch, you know, like Planet of the Apes, like the making of that that latest one. I don't know the name of the the latest one, but I was at Sigraph and I was watching a a talk where they had the most amazing the guys at Wetter know how to do a presentation, but it was just like full of detail and like tiny like cuz they had like monkeys in the the the rapids and like just the sheeting and the the the plants had to have just the right amount of of wind or else you and so like artists are just slaving over every single detail. And I'm sure a lot of them were like, "Come on, who's going to notice?" You know, and it's like, people will notice if it looks fake. That's what they'll notice. Um, but they won't know specifically what you did, but they'll know if it looks fake. Anyways, so we've done our weight painting. I did a lot of detailed weight painting there. But now, how do we make our sprinkles just appear in that place? Oh, yeah. Bring it back by clicking that. Um, we do it here where it says distribution mask. Okay. So instead of this uh single value from 0 to one, we can change it to two. Click this little spreadsheet looking icon. I don't know why they went with that icon, but anyways. Then from the drop-own, we want to select group. Okay, which is the name by the way inside of data. It's right here. So if you wanted to change that to be sprinkle distribution, you could um and then just, you know, click it there. But yeah, that's that's what it's referencing. By the way, make sure you're not using it cuz you can see there's distribution mask and density. They both have this icon. If you instead used it here, you would see like almost nothing. And that's because it's now overridden what was there, a density value of 900 with a value of 0 to one across those areas. Whereas a distribution mark will keep the density of 900, but it'll multiply it by the values of 0 to one here. So it's uh it's important you get the right one. Distribution mask, not density. But there you go. Great. Cool. So they're in the right places generally. You know, you can play around with it obviously. Um but now let's talk about some other settings you might want. Like for example, the density. How much how many sprinkles do you want? Now, the big question people have when they're looking at this, they go, "How do you stop the sprinkles from intersecting each other?" And unfortunately, there's not an easy answer because this is not easy to do there. There's a such a thing as like circle packing. That's the closest thing, which is like you could run an algorithm to try to combine circles of different radiuses to kind of fit together as best they could. But just it's it's complex. That's kind of like a simulation and we just we can't do it easily here. The closest thing we have is called distribution method plus disk which when you click that and by the way you can only see that option if you're using density method not amount. So amount will let you uh actually use a specific amount of uh sprinkles but then you don't get this uh extra option here whereas density bases it on the scale of the object in relation to the scene and yada yada. But anyways, on disk gives you this little setting, minimum distance. And what it does is essentially every single one of these points here, it goes there's a point, there's a point, there's a point, there's a point. And then when you increase this value by whatever amount, it will add a circle around it, right? And if you increase that circle and you increase that circle, right? Eventually, if this one, for example, had a value of this size, this little dot here would be removed because it is now colliding with the value of this one. So, this one would override that one. So, this one gets xed. So, if we increase this, you can see that is exactly what happens. All right. So, I'm holding down shift as I just play with that value there. But you can see that's removed some of the intersections, but there are still some more. So, you might be tempted like, "All right, let's increase that even more. Let's increase it like cuz I want to get I want to get rid of this one, right? Let's increase it again, right?" And you go, "Aha, I fixed it. No more intersection." But now the problem is the the radiuses are so big that they're deleting each other and you now have what looks like meticulously tweezed, placed uh sprinkles placed along the doughut um rather than randomness. Right? So, we've gone from the chaos to something that just doesn't look right to the to the eye. So, really what I do is I just drop this to be as low as I can get it before it starts to feel like too manicured. Right. That still to me feels a little too manicured. I might go like that. I might even go a little bit lower. Yeah. See, that feels chaotic to me. I like that. And then what I do generally is um I just change this seed amount here. The seed amount not very well named but I understand why they why they did it. But it's it's just a randomness amount like a distribution amount. Okay? You find it in a lot of like procedural workflows but it's like you can cycle through here. There's an infinite number of uh numbers here. And by the way it's not like you know one is any better than a th00and or 10,000. Like these are each individual. It's just a random number generator to uh give you different variations. So, you could do that as many times as you want to try to find the best distribution that has the least amount of intersections. That's probably the best that you can do um with what we've got. The other the other thing as well is that sprinkles sometimes are not laying flat right on a on a donut. Sometimes they might be a little bit skewed like that and that can kind of help with the intersections. So here where I've got randomize, I'm going to increase which one? The X, right? Not too much or else it'll just look weird, but a little bit makes sense for what we've got. The other thing that we should do as well is with our sprinkles, if we just bring them back by clicking on that little check box at the top there, um the point at which they are spawned onto the icing is where the origin point is of the uh of the mesh there. And we haven't talked about that either, but that's kind of you could think of it as like the center of mass for the object. It's we're not using physics, but like that's kind of how you think of it. It's like generally speaking it should be in the center of an object. You can see here with it being there. If it was spawned like here for example, the whole sprinkle is going to be over here. Right? So if you've got those circles of radiuses, it might be intersecting something when it shouldn't. Um whereas if you select all of them like this, then you rightclick and then you say set origin origin to geometry, they will now be at the exact center of that sprinkle and it'll just be a little bit better and there'll be slightly less um intersections. Um but that's that's the best we can do. The alternative way to like have sprinkles on a donut where they're not intersecting like this would be to use a physics engine. Um there's a rigid body physics engine in Blender. Unfortunately, it's not very good. It's very slow. It's one area that they're looking to overhaul with more funding. Yes, I found another way to throw it in there. Um, if more people donate, we can have good physics in Blender. That's what I want to tell you. Um, but for now, this is uh this is the best we got. Or the other way is you could actually apply this. You could say, "Apply all my sprinkles." Um, you would have to realize first, realize the instances, so they're actual objects, then apply them. Um, but you could then actually physically move each of these little ones like that. But I wouldn't recommend doing that. I think it is overkill. It's not and um it's not needed and it's not going to help you for the next step because we got to have random colors. So yes, colors. Let's make our sprinkles look not like tic tacs. So yeah, if we go uh enable our sprinkles, right? You know, we can come in here. We can give it a material and you know we could we could pick a random color you know get a purple one and then go yeah now I want to make a yellow one or whatever right the problem with this method is although this works and it is fast is um that you'll always have the green one will always be that bent one that little squiggly one right and your eye can kind of pick up on things like that um it's also like hard to control the colors right? Because I can't control how many blue ones or purple ones or whatnot I get across my donut. So, it's also not ideal. So, there is a much better way which involves, as I briefly mentioned before, random colors. So, you start with your material like this. And we're actually going to give the exact same material to all of our sprinkles. So, um let me just disable those and I'll select all of my sprinkles here. Um, and if I want to give them all this same material, all I would do is the last sprinkle, as long as that's got a material, I can hit Ctrl L. Ctrl L. And that will transfer data from one object to many objects. And then you're just looking for materials like that. And now you can see the uh where it says material, there's a little number next to it. And that actually tells you the number of users that are sharing that data. So there's six sprinkles now all sharing it. And you know to be good good little artists um we should call it uh sprinkle or sprinkles I don't know. Anyway um cool. So now if we go to the uh shader tab I'm going to show you how we can we can make this look cool. So let's go back to the shader view. Okay great. So there is no limit really to what you can do with nodes. Um you can plug things in and do this and that and it's it's really cool. There's a bunch of nodes. If you hit shift A and just go in here, there's like all sorts of attributes you can call in and do complex things and you can get really technical. So, it's it's a lot of fun. Um, but the one that we're going to use is underneath object info. If you bring in this node, um, you'll see that there's there's a bunch. There's like location, you know, you could drag that into the, uh, color, you know, there's there's all sorts of things that you can do with this. The one we're looking for is random. Okay. So, what this is doing is it's saying every time there's an object that is using this material, we're going to pick a random value for that object between zero and one. Okay? And you would actually see if you were to duplicate this sprinkle again and again and again and again and again, which by the way, um, you can do by just holding down shift R after you do a duplicate, and you just get more and more and more sprinkles. Um you can see that they all now have a value between 0 and one and that's been converted into color form because 0 is black and then one is uh white. Right? So that's what um that's what this is doing. So 0 to one giving it that scale. Um have I run out of undos? I've run out of undos. Well I have to assume that was yeah that was the last one. Okay, there we go. Um so that's not very useful in this format like zero to like like black to white. It's it's not that fun. But we can convert those single float numbers 0 to 1 into color format by between here and here dropping in a color ramp node. So if you go add or shift A and then go color and then go color ramp, then if you just drag this in and drop it until that line lights up, drop it in there. Now I can say instead of it being black at this end, let's make this a blue color. And instead of it being white, let's make it a orangey color. Right? And now I've got a range of those. Right? And you could see as if I was to duplicate, right? You get kind of like variance [snorts] across this, right? Every single one of those is getting like a new little position somewhere in this um little uh gradient over there. Okay. And that's cool. And that would, you know, if you looked at our donut now, you would see that we're now getting a nice range of different colors across it. However, it's not quite accurate. If you look at photographs of donuts, there's there's not really like the yellow sprinkles are all the exact same shade of yellow. The blue sprinkles are all the exact same shade of blue. And it makes sense because they mix up the the the sprinkle uh icing uh I was going to say batter, just the icing sauce. Icing icing. They just mix that up with one like lot of food color. They get just the color right and then it's piped out and then that becomes the sprinkle. So they all have one constant color, not a range of colors like this. So um by the way, here's a little a little tip cuz you'll notice this that like when you click on something else like you're icing or you're hiding your sprinkles like I can't get back that material with all my sprinkles on it, right? So I have to go here. I have to enable it just so that I can click on it just so that I can tweak the color. It's annoying. You don't need to do that. We've got a material here that says sprinkles. So, we can hide it. And then what I do is I just select my icing and then I add a new material underneath it. And then I which you do by clicking the little plus button there. So, click the plus and then in the dropown you're looking for sprinkles. Okay. And this won't affect your icing. Like you can stack multiple materials on one object and then although we're not going to do it in this tutorial, you can assign certain parts of that material to different parts of your mesh. For example, you could assign it like that. Um, but you can also just leave it unassigned and then that way you can like quickly reference it. So that's what I like to do. So I've still got my glaze at the top there and then whenever I want to change my sprinkles, they're there and it's being shared across all the sprinkles that are hidden. Anyways, so as I mentioned, I want it to be a constant color. How can I make this look like a constant color? You can do it by changing these handles from instead of it being linear interpolation to a constant interpolation. And look at that. Now it is a hard line. It's not a a gradient across it. You only get all of this blue or all of this uh orange. So, you know, if you wanted to make a uh Halloween donut, right, you can go for something. I I moved to United States a couple of years ago. coming up on two years ago. And uh I'm just learning that that's the colors of Halloween because we don't really do Halloween in Australia where I'm from. Like some people do, but it's really a kind of a rare thing that people are into. But it's always Yeah, it's the black, orange, the green, and the purple seems to be the uh the colors that people like decorate their houses with and stuff. And Reese's pieces really lean into that. They love that they're one of those colors. You know, you can do you can do like fun stuff, right? You can make up the Halloween looking uh donut if you wanted to. Um what I'm going to do for mine is um I'm going to make mine look like pastel. Um so I like to go with like a shade of aqua kind of like that. And then I'm going to go with purple like that. And this is a a tip by the way. You never want to go like 100% um like saturated like that. Um that's weird. Why is no donut got that exact? Well, they are. They're just being washed out. Okay, they don't look very very extremely saturated. But anyways, um you never want to go like fully saturated like that because it can like using different uh the way you render it. If you put it like through a like a a contrast, you kind of like boost highlights or like make things more contrasted, it can kind of like blow out the colors. So, it's it's generally a good idea to leave things mostly unsaturated like this. It's also just like more pleasing on the eye if you don't have too many things that are like, you know, extremely intense. Um, and now this is the other thing as I mentioned, right? I can now choose the exact ratio of my sprinkles. More blue, more purple, more pink, more yellow. And I just have an exact easy slider to choose this. Um, and this is really fun. This is like where you get to be creative and go like what kind of what kind of donut am I going to be making here? You know, um like this, you know, you can make some white ones. But yeah, generally as a a rule of advice um when you're when you're making something um like this and you've got lots of colors, lots of potential color choices, it's best to try to go with like one primary color, like one that is making up the predominant color choice, right? So you go like mostly purple and then like a few splashes of other colors and it just helps it. It's it's almost like it helps your brain digest what it's looking at. Whereas if you just went like evenly distributed across all of them or get an equal share, it just starts to look a little bit like noise. Um by the way, the other thing that you might want to do at this point Oh, I'm already using it. I'm using medium high contrast. Um, but we're going to be So, by default, your color management, it kind of looks like this. So, your colors look a little bit washed out. And we're not going to get into color management, but essentially like everything is kind of a little bit desaturated. Um, and it's designed so that it makes it easier to grade, but it's not really designed for a final render when you're using the none look. Instead, you're better off using uh medium high or high contrast or for a YouTube thumbnail. Very high contrast. That's what I use. Um, and these aren't like bad. It's not like they're doing like a rough like contrast grab or something. This is like a proper S- log um uh sorry S-curve uh conversion. Um nothing is peing. It's all It's all this I I use these all the time. Medium high, medium uh yeah or or high. Um anyways, so that's pretty good. And then I might grab my Oh, yeah. I got to fix this again. Let's make that back what it was. Let's move that back. Get a few more blues in there. Bit of pinks, bit of whites, bit of yellows. I'm going to make my icing as well a little bit hotter. And I'm going to tweak it a little more towards the purple range. Just a little bit. Back at the sprinkles. The other thing I forgot to mention as well, um, sprinkles are actually a little bit shiny if you look at references. So, a little bit shiny. And then the other thing it really needs, and this does make a big difference, is subsurface scattering. So, just like before, dragging down on that radius to make them all one. And then I'm increasing the weight to be one. And then I just dropped this scale to be something really low. But that will make a big difference. I was before I was like practicing for this this uh video. Um and I was like, why are my sprinkles just not looking good? They weren't looking as good as um you know, a previous render I'd done and I forgot subsurface scattering. And it does make uh a huge difference. So there we go. We've got a nice looking doughut. Before you go ahead, what I'd like you to do is to try to create your own style of doughut. Um, you could try substituting the long sprinkles for like rounded sprinkles or like star- shaped sprinkles. Um, you could change the doughut color to be something else. You could make more donuts by just stacking donuts on top of each other. Um, here are some ideas that uh my team and over the years we different donut versions and stuff we've we've created. Um, but you can do a lot. So have fun just experimenting and trying to create something of your own with your own creativity uh injected into it. And it'll also just kind of teach you to kind of think independently and like where is this thing and locate that and it's you know just a way of like bringing back that information and also as your homework uh add some sprinkles to your plate if you want. Um I won't show you how to do it because it's basically the same steps as before scattering on surface. The only thing uh I'll mention is that you do need to apply your solidify modifier so that you can actually paint on the correct side of your plate and they will appear um as long as that's done. But it's super simple. So I trust you all be able to do that. Anyways, that's it for this video. Join me in the next part, the final part as we do the lighting and rendering.